#Early-career ecologists establish a global network

##Presubmission inquiry 

Dear editors at PLoS Biology, 

We would like to submit this suggestion for the PLoS Biology Community Page
regarding the recent establishment of a novel global initiative aimed towards
early career ecologists -the International Network of Next-Generation
Ecologists (INNGE). INNGE is a young organization under the umbrella of the
International Association for Ecology and involved early-career ecologists
represent ecological societies and initiatives from four continents (14
countries).

Throughout its history, learned society activities in ecology have been
concentrated at the national level. A hundred years after the establishment of
the first national ecological society, INNGE’s aim is to create a platform for
early-career ecologists to interact on a global scale. Through our global
focus on early-career scientists, we aim not to substitute for membership of
learned ecological and evolutionary societies, but instead to integrate and
empower young researchers engaged in a diverse array of initiatives.

INNGE combines the reach of electronic communication tools with the
organizational support of major societies, taking the best from online science
initiatives and early-career initiatives of academic societies. We use these
tools to encourage organization and activity of early-career ecologists and
cast light on current, defining challenges for the ecological field. We call
this combined focus Next-Generation Ecology. Of recent next-generation
initiatives we can count an intercontinental survey of ecologists, a blog
aggregator for ecology and advancement of ecologists’ voices in sustainability
discourse (examples outlined below).

While the two first years have mainly been spent on building an organizational
base, the near-term future will be crucial for INNGE. In eight months, INNGE
is organizing the first gathering of early-career ecologists from around the
world in London at INTECOL 2013. The opportunity to communicate our effort in
a highly publicized forum like the community page before our activities in
London represents a major opportunity for INNGE to spread our mission.

In the suggested community page, we argue that INNGE serves as an example of
how early-career scientists through a global network can minimize challenges
to local initiatives such as lack of experience, peer feedback and resources.

##Why is INNGE appropriate for a PLoS Biology Community Page? 

Bottom-up: INNGE is an example of how a long expressed goal from the major
organizations in a field came to be, not through a top-down process, but by
bottom-up action and trust that students and post-docs would take
responsibility and carry-out their own version of that shared vision.

Next-generation: Early-career groups often spend most of their energy on
securing funds and rights for their own demographics. INNGE believes that the
key to engage early-career scientists is to prioritize topics that will shape
our careers in the future. Topics such as open-science, education reform, the
ecological crisis and use of new technology. Of recent concrete examples we
highlight:

- The launch of an open ecology blog aggregator (EcoBloggers) as well as a
special section of our blog that features solicited thought provoking Next-
Generation Point-of-View’s.

- A questionnaire showing consistent dissatisfaction with mathematical skills
and training between North American and European ecologists. The survey with
about 1000 participants is in preparation for a peer-reviewed journal. 

- An emerging effort to improve the opportunities and voice of early-career
ecologists in sustainability. This includes a collaboration with the
International Science Council’s (ICSU) Future Earth, and a partnership with
the Institute for New Economic Thinking-Young Scholars Initiative (INET YSI)

We believe a Community Page on the topic outlined above would be of high
relevance and interest for the broad readership of PLoS Biology, serving as an
example of how early-career scientists can help shape the future of their
discipline.
